# Supermarket-Sales-Analysis
The supermarket chain is experiencing stagnant or declining sales across its stores. The company lacks a centralized and comprehensive analytics solution to identify sales trends, customer preferences, and opportunities for improvement. The aim of this project is to analyze and optimize supermarket sales performance by examining customer flowrate and devising effective business strategies. The problem entails understanding the factors that influence sales performance such as customer behaviour, product placement and product pricing. By analyzing customer flow rate, we can identify peak hours, bottlenecks, customer preferences and customer gender that enable us to improve the overall shopping experience. In addition, this analysis will help in the development of targeted business strategies that encompass personalized marketing campaigns, optimal inventory management and efficient staff allocation. To address these issues, companies need to carefully analyze their sales performance and customers detail in order to develop continuously optimized strategies to increase sales. This project emphasizes on increasing sales performance of supermarket with the help of Power BI tools to develop business strategies. The objective of this project is analyzing sales data to identify trends, patterns, factors influencing sales performance. Another objective is gaining insights into customer preference, behaviour, and shopping habits. In summary, this project is empowering the supermarket store management team with the necessary tools to leverage analytics effectively.
